# Over to minikube again
This is write up on minikube usage for my future self. I was using minikube for
almost an year(~2018) but with the 'none' driver, i.e i was using the docker
backend as the using the VM was quite heavy on my machine and also
it had issues with sharing the images.

I was quite happy with the setup, but whenever i switched networks i had to
restart the minikube again, I didn't figure out a solution for that. But it was
annoying. as often i work from both home and office, i had to start over again.

Slowly, I lost patience with that and then i started using K3s the rancher's
thing and it was quite nice.But it also had its limitations.

As i changed teams(~2020), i tried to minikube setup again but this time i had
more issues (due to insecure registries) and went back to use my test cluster.

As usual test cluster don't offer freedom. Freedom is a hard compromise for me,
so i am coming back to setup this again.

Lets do it!

## Install
We will download and install the latest minikube, also remember I will use
docker backend, incase you have to use a hypervisor check the installation
guide and pick the suitable one.
```
 curl -Lo minikube https://storage.googleapis.com/minikube/releases/latest/minikube-linux-amd64 \
  && chmod +x minikube
  sudo minikube /usr/local/bin/minikube
  minikube version
```
[See the installation guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-minikube/)


## Start
Now that we have installed,let us try to start it. Bewaret, if you have a
KUBECONFIG value it might update the minikube's context to that current
kubeconfig file and change the current context.

If want to avoid that, may be start with unsetting the KUBECONFIG variable.

```
    minikube start --driver=docker --kubernetes-version=v1.17.3 --cpus=2 --memory=4g
```
I want to use the docker driver and want to have a specific kubernetes version
instead of the default latest version.


## Check
First let us check if the service is up
```
    minikube status
```
Output
```
    minikube
    type: Control Plane
    host: Running
    kubelet: Running
    apiserver: Running
    kubeconfig: Configured
```
That should be easy and should make you happy

## Use
Now test if we can really use the service,
```
    kubectl create deployment hello-minikube --image=k8s.gcr.io/echoserver:1.10
    kubectl expose deployment hello-minikube --type=NodePort --port=8080
    kubectl get pod
    kubectl get svc
```

As the sevice is exposed as NodePort, we can ask minikube to get address of the
service.
```
    minikube service hello-minikube --url
```
## Issues
I had to use ImageSecrets for pulling the images(secure registries) that is
exactly what i wanted, so i tried to run some of the charts in our current
development and it was working.

But probably, i need to restart the minikube with more cpu & memory.

Also remember there could be containers asking for more cpu/memory which could
fail, so if there are crashbackloop due to memory check the helm manifest and
adjust the resource values.
